<p align="justify"> Your Text </p>

# Welcome to the Read me of the Filters folder
<p align="justify"> I created these files as tools to support some of my research and work in the mineral processing field. They’re not meant to be fancy. Their main purpose is to save time on repetitive tasks.
Below, you’ll find an overview of each filter along with a short guide on how to use it. 

Most of these tools were developed while I was working at Geopypra. If you’re interested in the technology behind them, you can learn more here:
https://www.geopyora.com/</p> 

## Mass filter
<p align="justify"> I developed this to me assist with comparisons against the SMC test. For parity testing, we recommend that particle selection for the Geopyora test follow the same criteria used in the SMC test (± of the mean particle weight).
For many reasons, some particles may fall outside the criteria. This can happen for several reasons, such as miscommunication or overlooking the target mean particle mass range. To address this, the Mass Filter was created to automatically identify and remove those particles in a fast and efficient way. </p>

Example of an application:
- If, for instance, 2 particles in a 30-particle sample fall outside the SMC criteria, the code will automatically remove those 2 particles an create a copy of it.
- Doing this manually for a single file is ok, but the purpose of this tool is to process an entire testwork, which usually involves multiple samples.
- The code was originally designed to handle breakage data files generated by the Geopyora machine. However, it can easily be adapted for other applications, since it simply checks a series of datapoints and determines whether they fall within the defined range.
- Because this tool was intended for comparison against the SMC test, the default range in the code is set to ±30%. This value can be adjusted by changing just a single line in the 

### Using the code
<p align="justify"> I’m not a professional coder, so each new version of this filter includes improvements based on testing across multiple testworks and validation. I recommend the highest-numbered version, as it will be the most reliable. </p>

- Outside of this Read me, the code is full of comments from me explaining multiple part of it, use that as a guide as well
- Instead of selecting a single file, it will ask for a folder containing all the tests. Just link that folder and make sure that only the target samples are in said folder
- It will also ask for an output folder. The script will then create new filtered files in that folder, while leaving the original files untouched. The folder doesn't need to be empty, but I recommend it. Also, if no output folder is inputed, the code will create one to dump the files
- Since this was designed for Geopyora data formatting, the mass column is expected in column 10 of the Excel file (index [9] in the code). If you’re adapting it for another application, just change that line or put your mass data in the 10th line.
- For each file it processes (interpreted as one sample), the code will prompt you to enter the mean particle mass. A potential future improvement would be to automate this step.
- In addition to the filtered files, the output folder will also contain a summary file. This file reports the number of particles removed from each sample, which is useful for quickly assessing data quality (e.g., if an unusually high number of particles were discarded).

- A note from me: If particles are removed because they fall outside the valid range, the comparison between the Geopyora test and the SMC test is somewhat compromised, but still usable in many cases. For example, if only 2 particles are removed from a 30-particle sample, the data remains meaningful. However, if more than ~30% of particles are excluded, the comparison becomes unreliable. In extreme cases (close to 50% of particles removed), the sample should be considered unusable for comparison purposes. As a rule of thumb, I recommend treating 30% removed as the upper limit for considering the results valid. **This guideline is not based on any research, just a suggestion**

